share common experiences
gemeinsame Erfahrungen teilen
As a child, I shared many common experiences with my best friend.
social background
sozialer Hintergrund
Despite their different social backgrounds, the boys became friends immediately.
moral values
moralische Werte
Patricia’s moral values mean that she is strongly against sex before marriage.
attitudes
Einstellungen
It can be difficult to change the attitudes of some older people.
perceive sb.
jdn. wahrnehmen
We perceived a tiny animal sitting in the branches of the tree.
position sb.
jdn. einordnen
We positioned ourselves at the front of the crowd in order to get a good view of the celebrities.
affect sth.
etw. betreffen; etw. beeinflussen
The film about the awful conditions on pig farms really affected me – I haven’t eaten meat since then.
opportunity
Chance; Gelegenheit
The journalism internship in New York is the opportunity of a lifetime!
have access to sth.
Zugang zu etw. haben
The people had no access to clean water after the water pump was damaged.
status
Status; gesellschaftliche Stellung
He enjoyed his powerful status as the mayor of the town.
diverse
vielfältig
The supermarket stocks a very diverse range of fruits and vegetables.
ever-changing
sich kontinuierlich wandelnd
That singer’s ever-changing style means she is always in the fashion magazines.
variety of sth.
Vielfalt von etw.; Spektrum von etw.
There’s a huge variety of sports on offer at this sports club.
divided loyalties
Loyalitätskonflikt
I had divided loyalties when my two best friends had a fight – I didn’t know whose side to take.
a ‘me-first’ society
Eine Ego-Gesellschaft
We live in a ‘me-first’ society which encourages people to put themselves first and not think about others.
face big challenges
großen Herausforderungen gegenüberstehen
The country is going to face big challenges while it tries to rebuild itself after the war.
social inequality
soziale Ungleichheit
There’s a lot of social inequality in Europe – just look at the divide between rich and poor people!
political
politische Unruhe
There were many demonstrations in the city during the period of political instability.
a pressing issue
ein dringliches Thema
High unemployment among young people is a pressing issue in Spain.