conversely
dem gegenüber
I like waking up early and starting my day, conversely my husband always gets up late.
heritage
Erbe; Tradition
My dad is researching our family heritage as he wants to know more about our ancestors.
crucial
entscheidend; äußerst wichtig
It is crucial that you deal with this problem now before it gets any worse.
override sth.
etw. außer Kraft setzen; etw. aufheben
You can override the autopilot on the plane by pressing that button.
produce a virtuous circle
eine Aufwärtsdynamik erzeugen
Her confidence meant she was popular at school, which produced a virtuous circle and made her even more confident.
tenacious
beharrlich; hartnäckig
The police officer held the robber in a tenacious grip until the other officers arrived.
rote repetition
regelmäßiges Wiederholen; regelmäßiges Üben
I always learn my vocabulary by rote repetition.
excel at sth.
in etw. beste Leistungen erzielen
I don’t want to be just good at football; I want to excel at it!
get praise
Lob erhalten
The firefighter got a lot of praise for his bravery in the fire.
self-esteem
Selbstwertgefühl
Even though he did well at school, he had low self-esteem as a teenager.
reassure sb.
jdn.bestätigen
She reassured the little boy that his mother would be home soon.
mediocre
mittelmäßig; durchschnittlich
The film was rated as mediocre in all the online reviews I read.
fragility
Zerbrechlichkeit
Because of its fragility, the ancient vase had to be transported in a special box.
praise sb.
jdn.loben
Tom praised his dog for fetching the newspaper.
devastated
niedergeschmettert;am Boden zerstört
The little town was devastated by the storm.
owe sb. sth.
jdm. etw. schulden
Harry owes me 50 pounds – I hope he pays me soon!
be indebted to sb.
bei jdm. in der Schuld stehen
I am indebted to my friends for supporting me when I was sick last year.
provide for sb.
für jdn. sorgen
They have four children to provide for.
parenting model
Erziehungsmodell
Parents must decide which parenting model is right for them as there isn’t only one way to bring up children.